>> Steve Kinney: The interesting part,
though, is we talked about,
the cool thing about TRPC,
it's effectively like having functions.
And the other cool thing that we saw is
that Prisma has a lot of functions, right?
So now what I could do is kind of like
begin to iterate over those methods,
right?
And exposes them all to the client, right?
Or a subset, or many of them, right?
Cuz there was create, many, right?
There was a whole bunch of these.
And I'm gonna get all of
the inner workings with all
the type safety for free.
Those I might have to figure out
an entire, REST full API experience.
If I was doing that with
a regular REST client, but
here I can just expose those methods.
They will have the same things
that Prisma has on the server.
The client can almost act like
it's calling things on the server.
The type safety is then carried from
the database through the web server
all the way to the client and
back the other way again, right?
And so again,
great if you can get away with it.
If you can't,
we have those lower level options, and
you can kind of choose your own
involvement in Project Mayhem, right?
And figure out what area
your code base works.
So for instance,
I can do something like this,
where we piss in Zod generator
to generate me the Zod types,
cuz I'm getting a lot of the type safety
from gRPC or TRPC for free, right?
But if I wanted the Zod types as well, and
with this little plug-in, I was so close.
It was like I've never hit that button
before, and I was like, here it is.
MPX, I think it went to
the top of the workspace file.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and
now if you look in this generated folder,
it is a lot, a much more robust
set of Zod schemas generated for
me directly representing
the database itself, right?
And so taking from that initial schema,
dot Prisma, pretty close,
obviously we've stuck to a theme this
entire time, generating all the types and
all the tests from the database
layer forward, right?
And then, theoretically, I could import
these into that TRPC-like set of methods
as the inputs, and now I know that
they are legitimately the ones that
match the database that the front-end
React app is calling, right?
Again, I get that all the way
from soups to nuts, like finish
all the way through some other fun things
that we can do, check this one out.
We all go in here.
There is also a generator for tPRC.
Why did I watch him set up a tPRC client
if he is just gonna show
me this at the end?
Cuz I am terrible person.
MPX generate,
I think it's just tRPC.
I gotta put Prisma in that one [LAUGH].
Cool.
And that in the generated stuff,
we now have routers and.
Schemas, and again,
this looks very similar to what
we just did, but I didn't do it.
This is now a task router,
as opposed to one I wrote myself with
basically all of the different methods,
just as we were opining that it
would be cool to have before.
Now, from the client,
if I imported this router,
I would be able to kind of do
all of these different things,
from the browser through the web server
to the database and back out again.
And you can see with the Zod
schemas that it generated in one
complete package of type safety
across every part of the stack.
One last bonus thing,
going back to the open API stuff
that we saw earlier, which is,
you can also, again choose.
Somebody asked before, like.
Okay, with this JSON schema,
would you just expose it, right?
And a lot of cases, like for
our open-source server, we do.
There is an endpoint.
I forget what the name of it is,
cuz it's in my browser history
all the time, where we kind of,
well, just either both expose the actual
schema so you can just get it, right?
But there's also this project called,
I forget the name of Swagger UI,
where you have seen this before, right?
>> Steve Kinney: So what we can do is we
can take our open API schema that we have
before going back to the rest
stuff if we wanna do for a second.
And grab this Swagger UI and this part,
we're also gonna pull in that.
>> Steve Kinney: So this is pulling in
that JSON file that is my OpenAPI schema,
and this is another piece of
middleware that exists for Express.
And then what you can do is to
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
and then what I should be able to
do
>> Steve Kinney: Is
it takes your open API schema and
gives you a whole postman interface.
You've probably seen this before from
other ways, but if you're wondering how to
generate one yourself, as long as you
have the schema, you can expose it.
You can do stuff like see what
a post request looks like and
execute it and
see what the curl command would be and
what the response is based
on the sample data, right?
So sometimes using some of this tooling,
if you can, obviously, and if,
again, like we saw that perhaps
getting instrumenting everything to
the point where you can
get to an open API scheme.
If you don't have one, you're starting
from scratch, very easy to do.
You can use that schema,
so on and so forth.
But if you are trying to get one,
it's been a wild west of
like rando express routes.
It's gonna take a little bit of time, but
we can argue that it will take a week,
two weeks.
Maybe, is it worth it?
Maybe.